---title: The Hack Day Manifestolayout: default---# [The Hack Day Manifesto][self]So you're organising a hack day or hackathon? Here are some basic requirementsto make your event a success, and avoid the common pitfalls that could otherwiseruin it. If you cannot provide any of the following, make it clear to guestsbefore registration. Attendees are generally forgiving when clear communicationis given. These are only guidelines, but exist to help you run a hack day in theeasiest possible way.## Announcing the eventOnce you know when and how your event will take place, you'll want to tell theworld about it. At a bare minimum, you should decide on a canonical place whereall public information about the event lives - this might be a dedicated website, an event on an existing event online service or some other place which ispublicly accessible.Once you've decided where that location is, use tools like Twitter and Facebookto make people aware of the event, and also consider which Google Groups andmailing lists developers relevant to your event may be hanging out. Don't spamthem, though - nobody enjoys that.### Registration _Optional_If you require your attendees to register, make it clear what information isrequired for signing up and what the deadline for the registration is. Ifthere's a maximum number of attendees the venue can handle, communicate how theselection process works and when/how people will be notified if they've beengranted attendance or not.If there's a waiting list for the event, make sure to explain how it works.Most registration forms lets applicants enter name, contact details and foodpreferences/allergies (if applicable). Depending on your event and your venue,you might want to ask for additional information - this manifesto lists a fewother topics which might make sense to add to the registration form.There are also a number of things you probably should _not_ ask for, likegender, religious preferences etc.## Venue### LocationThe venue should be relatively easy for people from outside of town to locate,with good public transport links. If it's difficult to reach, try to providealternative means of transportation, such as coaches to/from local transporthubs throughout the event. Provide a full address, and if necessary,additional instructions to all attendees well in advance of the event.Include instructions/contacts/getting in arrangements, too (i.e., whatto do at reception/security desks).Print big signs that will guide your attendees to the venue (and in some caseinside the venue).### AccessibilityHack day venues should be accessible to everyone: at a bare minimum, thereshould be step-free access to all common parts of the building. If an attendeeis blind or deaf, they should be able to participate too. Make sure your eventsignup forms mention accessibility and ask what accommodations might be needed.### InsuranceDoes your venue have the relevant insurance? Are guests' belongings protected incase of fire or theft? If not, you should make them aware of the risks so theycan take extra precautions.Do you, as an organizer have adequate insurance?### SecurityAttendees will often be bringing a lot of expensive kit: laptops, tablets, etc.Make sure they have some security. If the venue does not have some form oflockers, can you run a cloakroom system?### Secure sites and photo IDAre the rooms going to be available to non-attendees? Work out whether you arerunning a secure site and whether people need to bring photo ID; if so, tellthem when they sign up and remind them close to the event date. For some people,showing photo ID may be a deal breaker. Not everyone will have'government issued ID', either. Providing proof of address may be hard for some.## Dates### Weekend or Not?Most hack days are held at the weekend as this allows people to attend withouttaking time off work. If you are planning a hack day that begins on a Friday,remember that this may limit the number of people willing to travel after work.### Checking for clashesOne of the most frustrating things for attendees to see is two similar eventson the same day in the same area. To avoid this, check places like[Lanyrd](http://www.lanyrd.com), [Eventbrite](http://eventbrite.com), [Meetup](http://www.meetup.com),and ask on Twitter "is anything going on in X on X?". Remember that people may betravelling long distances for hack days, so even if an event is a few hundredmiles away, you are still diluting your potential audience.## Overnight Events### Sleeping provisionIf attendees are staying overnight, then a separate (dark, quiet) area should beavailable away from the hacking should people decide to sleep. If possible, thisshould be several areas potentially including dedicated areas, for examplemale/female/mixed, minors (+chaperones?), snorer/non-snorer, night-owls/early birds.### Showers _Optional_Despite the stereotypes, most geeks like to keep clean. Only a few venues areable to provide showers - but if you can, you should. Make sure you tellattendees well in advance so they can bring towels and toiletries.## Network### Your 4MB DSL isn't enoughHack days have special requirements: don't just trust anyone who tells you that"it'll be fine". Think about the networking issues, and verify that they workfor the kind of capacity you are going to have. People from the venue or theircommercial partner will tell you all sorts of things you want to hear but keepin the back of your mind that they may not have any clue what they are talkingabout. Given the importance of network access, if you are operating a commercialevent consider requiring network performance as part of your contract withvenues and suppliers.### Rock solid WiFiMany commercial WiFi providers plan for much lower use than actually occurs athack days. The network should be capable of handling at least 4 devices perattendee.### Minimal firewallingAs a minimum: ports used for SSH (22), DNS (53 — TCP &amp; UDP),VPN (47, 500, 1701, 1723, 5500), HTTP (80), NTP (123 — UDP),HTTPS (443), Submissions (587), IMAPS (993),MQTT (1883), CVS (2401), Subversion (3690), XMPP/Jabber (5222), IRC (6665-9),and Git (9418), must be open and accessible, without the need ofproxy servers, and preferably without perimeter-level malware checks.### Subnet / DHCP capacitySubnet and DHCP server must have capacity for allocating 6 IPv4 (andoptionally, IPv6) addresses (preferably a /29) per hacker.If NAT is not used, attendees should be informed in advance.### WiFi securityUse WPA2 security over an open WiFi network, to offer some basic protectionagainst the monitoring of other users' network traffic.### No device isolationAttendees should be reminded that when connected to the network, their devicesmay be accessible to all other devices on the network so they would be wise tosecure them.Organisers should make it clear that they absolve themselves ofliability for any intrusion or damage caused over the network. Attendees willwant to share resources with other attendees (version control, for example) butwhile it would be wise for them to do so in a controlled manner it is ultimatelyup to each individual to be responsible for the security of their own devices,connected or otherwise.Attendees should be encouraged/advised to run their own firewalls,too, remembering that IPv6 exists.### IP WhitelistingFor events with 150 attendees or more, you will need to contact organisationssuch as Twitter, Google, and Freenode in advance to inform them of the increasednumber of connections from your IP range; they may have an existing process thatyou should use.In many cases, rate-limiting is handled by authentication, not IPaddress (ranges).For Freenode, email [iline@freenode.net](mailto:iline@freenode.net) with dates,expected number of attendees and IP addresses if possible.### QoS and MonitoringTraffic shaping and monitoring should be employed to help prevent a few usersabusing the connection to the detriment of all others.Deep packet inspection should not be used.### Ethernet to the Chair _Optional_In case of WiFi collapse (or if you can't provide adequate WiFi at all) youshould have ethernet available at the chairs. Have at least 100 megabit ethernetfeeding into a gigabit backbone arranged in an (extended) star topology.If you go ethernet-only, announce this up-front. Regardless if you providecables or attendees bring their own, you should have a big pile of sparecables at the venue.### Single subnet _Optional_Both WiFi and ethernet should share a single subnet, allowing devices tocommunicate regardless of how they are connected to the network.## Power### Power socketsYou will need a minimum of 1.5 power sockets available for every seat. That's aminimum; many attendees will bring two, three, or more devices that requireseparate power. Have spare cables available. Make sure you have access to the fuses of all used power circuits, and review power requirements with the venue.### Portable Appliance TestingAs stated above, your attendees will be bringing two, three, or more devicesmaking full PATs for every device an impossible endeavour. But if you areproviding a lot of power strips it can be worth getting them tested.### Isolated power for hardware hacks _Optional_Isolating the power for those doing hardware hacks is generally a good idea,don't let one soldering iron knock out the power for the entire venue.## Sustenance### Dietary requirementsNot everyone in the technical community is hypercarnivorous. Be sure to checkwith your attendees for dietary requirements: food allergies, vegetarians,vegans and people with dietary restrictions. Make provisions to ensurethey are provided for equally. If you're on a budget, prioritiseallergies and vegan alternatives; the vegan alternative will satisfymost non-allergy based requirements. Common food allergies include milk,eggs, nuts, fish, shellfish, soya, and wheat (gluten).### BreakfastIf your event starts before 11am you should provide breakfast to attendees,either continental or cooked.### LunchYou should provide a lunch for each day of the event, this should consist atleast of sandwiches (or suitable alternatives for gluten intolerant folk).### DinnerIf your event runs later than 6pm or overnight you should provide attendees witha proper evening meal, not sandwiches or snacks (and not everybody likes/eats pizza).### OvernightIf your event runs through the night, you should arrange for food to beavailable throughout the night, either by periodically refreshing it orsupplying something that can still be eaten after it has gone cold.### DrinksA selection of coffee, green and black tea (plus milks, sugars), energy drinks,caffeinated and non-caffeinated soft drinks, juices and _water_ should be freely available toattendees throughout the event.### SnacksChocolate, sweets, biscuits, fruit, crisps, etc. should be freely available toattendees throughout the event. Try to ensure there are healthy options too.Fresh fruit, nuts and vegetable platters can provide sustainable high energy levels todevelopers through out an event.### AlcoholShould be served as if you are the owner of your local bar because, in fact,you are. Check licensing rules with the venue, including where and when alcoholcan be served and consumed and what time you need to stop serving. If you have underage attendees,make sure they're not served alcohol. Penalties for failing to do this could rangefrom a fine to imprisonment for the person providing alcohol and loss of licence for the venue.## APIs / Datasets### PresentationsPresentations by API and dataset providers should be kept to a minimum, try tomake it a quick introduction involving the company name, the type of data /platform they have, and who to speak to for more information. Have technical -not marketing - people give the presentation as they will be asked technicalquestions, both on stage and during the rest of the event.### Working APIsThe APIs pitched to attendees should be checked in advance by someone technicalto confirm that they are suitable, work, and are of a high enough quality.### Multiple clientsAll APIs should provide client libraries in at least three majorlanguages unless there is good reason for them not to (such as the targetplatform only supporting a single language).(And if you haven't got the client libraries written, maybe you need aninternal hack day to write them!)### Clean datasetsDatasets provided for use in the hack day should, where possible, bechecked in advance by someone technical to ensure they are wellstructured and in a sensible format (CSV, XML, JSON, RDF etc., ratherthan Excel spreadsheets and PDFs).### Thorough documentationAll APIs and datasets should have thorough documentation, detailing format, anycodes or abbreviations, as well as the underlying assumptions and business logicof what it represents. The documentation should be checked by someone technicalbefore announcing the API.### Local downloadsDatasets -- especially large datasets -- should be available over the networkfrom local servers without the need for registration, and where possibleavailable on USB keys for even faster transfer.### Make data explorableTry and ensure that large datasets are accompanied by smaller sample files soattendees can check them for suitability and write parsers using a small numberof records before downloading and importing multi-gigabyte files.### API KeysIf an API requires a key to use it, then make sure that someone is on site andable to authorize the requests quickly, and with as little fuss as possible.### LicensingGet clear licensing information from API and dataset providers ahead of time,and communicate those licences clearly to the attendees, remembering that thosein the technical community often have strong opinions about open licences fordata and code.### LongevityAttendees are often averse to building on top of platforms and datasets thatcould disappear or will incur usage fees after an event, try to avoid companiesmaking resources available only for the duration of the event and communicateclearly the risk of building on top of any alpha or beta APIs.## Demos### Hack submissionsIf possible, have a shared, public listing of the hacks that have beensubmitted. This helps the judges, the attendees and bloggers/journalists who arecovering the event.  Hack submissions should be as straight forward as possible.You can use Google Docs, Etherpad or a wiki.  Make sure that all attendees havewrite access and can concurrently edit. Plan for the hack listing to stay aroundas a historical record.  Alternatively, there are hack submission services thatwill handle the logistics for you like [Hacker League](http://hackerleague.org/),[Hackathon.io](http://hackathon.io), or [WeHack.it](http://wehack.it/).Anyone who hacks should be a allowed to demo at the end of the event, regardlessof the quality or completeness.### Time limitEach demo should be given a fixed time limit, standard times are 60, 90, 180,and 300 seconds. Tell presenters ahead of time, let them know how much timeremains (either half time cards or an on-screen count down), and don't let themrun over.### Clear expectationsTry and communicate clear expectations for the demos to all attendees from thebeginning of the event. Some attendees will become frustrated when they seeothers demo-ing paper prototypes or Photoshop mockups when they believed aworking implementation was required. If hacks do not meet these baserequirements, they should not be able to win a prize.### Audience voteIf you have an "audience choice" prize, someone will attempt to game the system,either technically or by running an obnoxious "vote for me" campaign. Keep theprize for it relatively small, and give attendees a one-time token (a code onthe reverse of their pass for large events, or a physical item for smaller ones)in order to vote.### Judge selectionThe judges for your hack day should reflect the nature of your event.For standard hack days, judges should be primarily technical or knowledgable in the relevant thematic area (eg. musicians judging Music Hack Day).Try to avoid having businesspeople (VCs, non-technical founders, journalists, etc.) judge technical events, as it encourages hackers to build prototype businesses, not interesting hacks.Your judging panel should be chosen to allow participants to win a hack day based purely on technical merit, even if the hack is completely impractical as a business.### Judge previews _Optional_If possible, let the judges meet all the teams for a few minutes, a couple ofhours before the presentations. This means people don't need to cram their wholeidea in 60 seconds, but instead can demo the product to their peers knowing thejudges understand how technically awesome their product is. This also allows forjudges to fully inspect if a product was actually implemented, or is just abunch of screenshots - and how technically advanced their project is.## Audio / Video### SupportThere should be staff on hand to help users set-up quickly for their demos, suchas connecting to the projector. If the equipment at the venue allows it, haveone demo presenting while the next is setting up.### Video connectorsFor the demos, either have a set of adapters handy for (Apple Mac) Thunderbolt, Mini DisplayPort, VGA,DVI, and HDMI video outputs, or make sure attendees know the projector's inputsahead of time so they can make sure they have the relevant adapters.### Projector infoInformation on projector resolution, contrast, etc should be provided toattendees and speakers ahead of the event.### Hardware and mobile hacksIf mobile or hardware hacks are expected, equipment to demonstrate them on thedevice should be present. Have a camera feed or visualiser available on the bigscreen. State ahead of time if that'll be provided, to allow these to be demoedadequately.## Prizes### Not every hack day needs prizesSome people go to hack days to learn, or to play. Having one team go home withenormous prizes and many other teams go home with nothing may sour the end ofthe event. Make sure it's not all about the money/toys.### Prizes per team memberPrizes must be divisible to encourage teamwork: it is very hard to slice an iPodinto three bits. If you wish to give away physical goods there should be enoughthat they may be given to each member of a reasonably sized team.### Available on the dayPrizes should be on site on the day of judging and ready to be handed toattendees as the winners of the various prize categories are announced.Attendees should not need to claim a physical prize after the event unless saidprize is dependent on winner.  If the prize is not available on the day, clearprinted instructions on how to claim must be provided instead.### No cost to claimAttendees should not be required to pay a subscription or sign a contract inorder to claim or make use of their prize.  Requiring prizewinners to do so islikely to induce negative feelings in the winner towards the company providingthe prize and the hack day organisers.### Avoid service prizesDiscounts and credit for an API, face time with a company's CEO, or developmentresources to continue a hack make for poor prizes (with obvious exceptions suchas of companies offering music/video streaming services or online stores) andare likely to just disappoint the winning team. When organizations/individualswish to pursue further development of a hack they should speak to the winningteam separately.## Atmosphere and attitudes### Don't make people feel unwelcomeAvoid sexism and other discriminatory language or attitudes. Don't make anyassumptions about your attendees. Get someone who is demographically verydifferent from you to check your marketing material through to see if it makessense and isn't offensive to someone who doesn't share your background.Many event attendees expect events to have and enforce a code of conduct. Havingsuch a code encourages diversity of participation and can help to create and maintain awelcoming environment. It is highly recommended to adopt a code of conduct foryour event. One such example is the [Hack Code of Conduct](http://hackcodeofconduct.org),and there are several other appropriate examples. You can either reference your chosencode of conduct directly or create your own customized version.Make sure to communicate clearly to attendees ahead of time the existence of thiscode and the enforcement policy behind it.In addition, the code should be linked prominently from the event web site andpromoted by the event organizers and by members of the event's community. The codeshould be known to and practiced by event staff and volunteers and enforcementprocedures should be clear.### Make assumptions around privacy clearTell people up front what level of privacy they should expect during the event.If you allow people to take photographs, tell photographers to respect people'sprivacy if they do not wish to be photographed: if someone objects to beingphotographed, they have a right to have that objection taken seriously.Sleeping areas should be explicitly marked as no photography as sleeping peopleare unable to implicitly consent to being photographed by not objecting.### Do not charge attendeesIf developers are willing to donate their time -- which could otherwise be usedfor paid work or hanging out with family and friends -- they should not becharged for tickets. It shows a complete disrespect for the value of theirtime, and is likely to leave a bad feeling towards the organisers andsponsors. The developers are providing the sponsors a service in testing andshowing the possibility of their APIs, data, products and services.### Intellectual propertyThe intellectual property rights of hacks produced at the event should belong tothe attendees, and not to the organisers, sponsors, or partners, with theobvious exception of (a) hack days based around the further development of an opensource project, or (b) commercially run hacks.Intellectual property can be a big issue; it is best to make expectations clearin advance, both to developers and to sponsors or data providers.### What are you after?Have some idea what counts as success, but don't be too tight: people willsurprise you! Some hack days are specifically focused on one language or tool,others on a theme, while others are meant for a particular open source projector problem that needs solving. The point of the event will inform how you domarketing, judging and many other aspects of the event.### This is not a rock concert!Some hack days have hired bands or other entertainment. This is usually a badidea. People are at the event to hack, and hacking requires extended periods ofconcentration. You don't need silence, but if you are thinking about putting onentertainment you may not understand exactly what the point of a hack day is. Ifyou do insist on putting noisy entertainment on, don't be surprised if thepeople actually trying to build things go and hide in the lobby to carry on withwhat they are doing.### Emergency plansMake sure you have a plan for attendees who are injured, fall ill orsuffer any other emergencies. Have at least one designated first aideron call. Make sure you know where the first aid box is, and check it'sappropriately stocked. Know the procedures for calling an ambulance,sounding the fire alarm, evacuation point, and logging incidents inthe venue.  Make sure attendees know who to turn to for help; a phonenumber, a few bright crew shirts and a central crew desk or wardrobego a long way. A central point of contact will also help you deal withinevitable electric, network, venue- or food-related questions.### Handling problematic peopleIt's unlikely that you'll have to throw someone out, but just in case know whatthe procedures are, what you're legally able to do and what kind of misbehaviourwould actually trigger ejection. Some events have instituted safe space andanti-harassment policies due to widely reported incidents of sexual harassment.### Keep your crew safe tooWorking at a hack day, as a volunteer or otherwise, can be a stressful and demandingjob. Make sure your crew are safe, happy and well-fed throughout, and thatyou've got enough staff to cope with emergencies or unexpected dropouts!### Finally, remember to have fun!If you follow all these guidelines, prepare well in advance, and get plenty ofrest before the big day, you'll maximize your odds of having an event that'snot just successful, but enjoyable as well. Good luck!## Supporters<div class="supporters" markdown="1">* [Daniel Knell](http://danielknell.co.uk/) Artisan of Code Ltd.* [Tom Morris](http://tommorris.org/)* [Kevin Prince](http://geeksoflondon.com/) Geeks of London* [Melinda Seckington](http://geeksoflondon.com/) Geeks of London* [Cristiano Betta](http://geeksoflondon.com/) Geeks of London &amp; PayPal* [Robert Lee-Cann](http://geeksoflondon.com/) Geeks of London* [Tom Scott](http://tomscott.com/)* [Hadley Beeman](http://linkedgov.org/) LinkedGov* [Dom Hodgson](http://thehodge.co.uk) Leeds Hack* [Sheila Thomson](http://kaikoda.com) Kaikoda* [Jason Grant](http://flexewebs.com) Flexewebs* [James Darling](http://abscond.org/) Music Hack Day, Rewired State* [Jonathan Markwell](http://inuda.org/) Inuda Community* [Hannes Ebner](http://greenhackathon.com/) Green Hackathon* [Jorge Zapico](http://greenhackathon.com/) Green Hackathon* [Andy Piper](http://andypiper.co.uk/) Developer Advocate, Twitter* [Sam Cook](http://samlr.com/)* [Chad McCallum](http://hackdays.ca/) HackDays Organizer* [Seyi Ogunyemi](http://micrypt.com/)* [Matthew Cashmore](http://thelondonbiker.com) Hack Day Organiser* [Colin Loretz](http://renocollective.com/) Reno Collective/Hack4Reno* [Don Morrison](http://renocollective.com/) Reno Collective/Hack4Reno* [Alper Cugun](http://hackdeoverheid.nl) Hack de Overheid* [Adam McGreggor](http://amyl.org.uk/) Developer Network Builder* [Patricio Molina](http://patriciomolina.com) Software developer, Wikipedist* [Abe Stanway](http://hackerleague.org) Hacker League* [Michel Jansen](http://micheljansen.org/)* [Swift](http://hackerleague.org/) Hacker League* [Margaret Gold](http://overtheair.org) Over the Air* [Alexey Komissarouk](http://pennapps.com) PennApps* [Andrew Mager](http://mager.co) Hacker Advocate, Spotify* [Jack Pearkes](http://api.jack.ly) Developer Advocate, Kiip* [Andrew Nesbitt](http://forwardtechnology.co.uk) Developer, Forward* [Mijndert Stuij](http://mijndertstuij.nl)* [Sam Machin](http://sammachin.com) Geek* [Paul Lamere](http://MusicMachinery.com) Music Hack Day* [Syd Lawrence](http://sydlawrence.com) Developer* [Matt Clements](http://mattclements.co.uk) Developer* [Carter Rabasa](http://carter.rabasa.com) Developer Evangelist, Twilio* [Jannette Mensch](http://design-mensch.de) IxD &amp; Hack Day participant* [Alexandre Passant](http://apassant.net) Music and Data Geek* [Paul Osman](http://paulosman.me) Developer Evangelist, SoundCloud* [Martyn Davies](http://martyndavies.net) Music Hack Day &amp; Developer Evangelist, SendGrid* [Chase Southard](http://openlexington.org) OpenLexington* [James Darling](http://abscond.org/) Co-founder Music Hack Day and Rewired State* [Mattias Arrelid](http://arrelid.com/)* [Jeremy Keith](http://adactio.com/) Founder, Science Hack Day* [Michael Wawra](http://wawra.co.uk) Geek* [Chris Weekly](http://chrisweekly.com/)* [Sam Smith](http://twitter.com/smithsam) organiser, ex-RS, wears semi-contradictory hats* [Johan Uhle](http://freenerd.de) Freenerd, Music Hack Day organizer* [Tim Messerschmidt](https://twitter.com/SeraAndroid) Developer Evangelist, PayPal* [Matthew Forr](http://twitter.com/matthewforr) Baltimore Hackathon Organizer* [Joel Franusic](http://joel.franusic.com) Developer Evangelist, Twilio* [Stefano Paluello](http://stefanopaluello.wordpress.com) Geek, Pastesoft* [Olof Mathé](http://twitter.com/olofster) Art Hack Day organizer* [Richard Kastelein](http://www.hackitarians.com) Hackfest Organiser* [Daigo Fujiwara](http://about.me/daigofujiwara) Founder, Boston Baseball Hack Day* [James Smith](http://cleanweb.org.uk) Cleanweb UK* [Aaron Franco](http://blog.clickslide.co) CTO at ClickSlide Limited* [Jonathan Gottfried](http://twitter.com/jonmarkgo) Developer Evangelist at Twilio, hackathon organizer* [John Bunting](http://blog.johnbunting.me) Tumblr API Lead* [James Parton](http://twilio.com) Twilio* [Ketan Majmudar](http://stereoartist.com) Developer (Titanium AppCamp &amp; London Titanium organiser)* [Derk Braakman](http://developers.hyves.nl) Product Manager API, Hyves* [Ankur Oberoi](http://twitter.com/aoberoi) Developer Evangelist, TokBox* [Stephen Mount](http://stemount.co.uk) Developer* [Daniel Appelquist](http://overtheair.org) Over the Air* [Joe Nash](http://hacksocnotts.co.uk) HackSoc Nottingham founder &amp; organiser* [Adam Yeats](http://twitter.com/adamyeats) Developer Relations Engineer, Pusher* [Matt Stine](http://www.mattstine.com) Community Engineer, Cloud Foundry* [Mike Elsmore](http://elsmore.me) Hackference founder &amp; organiser* [Paolo Sinelli](http://www.whymca.org/) WhyMCA co-founder &amp; organiser* [James Cox](http://twitter.com/JamesAaronCox/) Developer Evangelist, The Hackfest* [Tracy Abrahms](http://twitter.com/HackyGoLucky) PDXNode organizer* [Scott Motte](http://scottmotte.com) Developer Evangelist, SendGrid* [Rob Finean](http://www.meetup.com/UK-Hackathons-and-Jams/) UK Hackathons &amp; Jams* [James Billingham](http://twitter.com/BillinghamJ)* [Tim Fogarty](http://twitter.com/tfogo) Major League Hacking UK, HackSoc Nottingham* [Ariel Waldman](http://arielwaldman.com) Global Instigator, Science Hack Day* [Dan Cunningham](http://hack4good.io) Head of Geeklist Corps of Developers + #hack4good global organiser* [Shyamal Ruparel](http://ruparel.co) LocalHackDay.mlh.io organizer* [Klaus Bravenboer](http://www.hackhumanity.org) HackHumanity founder + organizer* [Andrew Seward](http://www.hack24.co.uk) Hack24 founder &amp; organizer* [Angus Fox](http://www.multizone.co.uk) CTO to go &amp; Product Manager &amp; Secretary, Social Developers London* [Manoj Nathwani](http://manoj.ninja) Hackathon enthusiast, Banter Ventures* [John Stevenson](http://jr0cket.co.uk) - [@jr0cket](https://twitter.com/jr0cket) Community Developer* [Gunasekaran Sengodan](https://www.facebook.com/gunasekaran.sengodan) - [@skrgunasekaran](https://twitter.com/skrgunasekaran)  Sitecore &amp; Insite eCommerce Developer, Bangalore, India &amp; co-founder thamizhstudio.com &amp; vidhaiorganicstore.com* [Ezequiel França](http://ezefranca.com) Brazilian Hackathon enthusiast, iOS Developer.* [Shakti Goap](https://hackinout.co) InOut Founder &amp; Lead Organizer</div>[Fork this project on GitHub][github], add yourself, and send us a pull request.[self]: http://hackdaymanifesto.com/ "The Hack Day Manifesto"[github]: https://github.com/hackdaymanifesto/hackdaymanifesto.github.com/ "Fork on GitHub"
